Documentation (#316)
pyodide/pyodide-build: docs/getting-started/quickstart.md

# Quick Start

This guide walks you through building a Python package with C extensions for WebAssembly using pyodide-build. Make sure you've [installed pyodide-build](installation.md) first.

```{note}
**Pure-Python packages do not need pyodide-build.** If your package has no C, C++, or Rust extensions, a standard wheel built with `python -m build` already works with Pyodide.
```

## Build from your source tree

If you have a package with compiled extensions locally, build it the same way you would with `python -m build`:

```bash
pyodide build .
```

The output wheel is placed in `./dist/` by default:

```
dist/your_package-1.0.0-cp313-cp313-pyemscripten_2025_0_wasm32.whl
```

On the first run, pyodide-build automatically downloads and sets up the cross-build environment and Emscripten SDK. This may take a minute — subsequent builds are fast.

You can specify a different output directory with `--outdir` / `-o`:

```bash
pyodide build . -o wheelhouse/
```

## Passing options to the build backend

Use `-C` / `--config-setting` to pass options to your build backend, just like with `python -m build`:

```bash
# Meson project: pass the cross-compilation file

> pyodide build . -C setup-args=-Dblas=none -C setup-args=-Dlapack=none

Reviewer: The command doesn't match the comment above it – I think we need to say Meson cross file (and also disabling BLAS and LAPACK are NumPy specific, so we should avoid mentioning them):

```suggestion
# Meson project: pass the cross-compilation file
pyodide build . -C setup-args="--cross-file=your-emscripten-cross-file.txt"
```
